so imagine the day you were born to the
day you would you you pass away that
every book you've ever read every movie
you've ever seen every everything you've
literally uh have heard every movie was
all encoded within the AI and you know
you could say that part of your your
your structure as a human being is the
sum total of everything you've ever
consumed right so that builds your
Paradigm imagine if that AI was
consuming that in real time with you and
with all of the social contracts of
privacy that you're not going to record
somebody and and doing that the
interesting part about it Jordan is once
you've accumulated this data and you run
it through even the technology of chat
GPT 4 or 3.5
what is left is a reasoning engine
with your context this is where it gets
very interesting is when you pass uh
this could become what I call your
wisdom keeper meaning that it can encode
your voice
it's going to encode your memories you
can edit those memories the availability
of those memories if you want them you
know not available if they embarrassing
or personal but you can literally have a
conversation with that sum total of data
that you've experienced and I would say
that it would be indistinguishable from
having a conversation with that person
because it would have all that memory
[Music]
hello everyone today I'm speaking with
entrepreneur scientist and artificial
intelligence researcher Brian romley
we discuss language models the science
behind understanding tuning language
models to an individual's contextual
experience the human bandwidth
limitation localized and private Ai and
ultimately where all of this insane
progress on the technological front
might be heading so Brian thanks for
agreeing to talk to me today I've been
following you on Twitter I don't
remember how I came across your work um
but I've been very interested in reading
your threads and you seem to be
okra so to speak with the latest
developments on the AI front and I've
been particularly fascinated about the
developments in AI for two reasons my
brother-in-law Jim Keller is a very
well-known chip designer and he's
building a chip optimized for AI
learning and we've talked a fair bit
about that and I've talked to him on my
YouTube channel about the perils and
Promises of AI let's say and and then
I've been very fascinated by chat GPT
um I know I'm not alone in that I've
been using it most recently as a digital
assistant and I got a couple of
questions to ask you about that so
here's here's some of the things that I
found out about Chow GPT and maybe we
can go into the technology a little bit
too so
I can ask it very complicated questions
like I asked it the other day about
there's this
old Papyrus from Egypt ancient Egypt
that details out a particular variant of
the story of Horus and Osiris to
Egyptian gods it's very obscure piece of
knowledge and it has to do with the
sexual element of a battle between two
of the Egyptian gods and I asked it
about that and to find the appropriate
citations and quotes from appropriate
experts
and it did so very rapidly but it then
it moralized out me about uh the sexual
element of the story and told me that
maybe it was in conflict with their
Community guidelines and so then I gave
it hell I told it to stop moralizing out
me and that I just wanted academic
answers and and it apologized and then
seemed to
do less of that although it had to be
reminded from time to time so that's
very weird that you can argue with it
let's say and that it'll apologize it
also does quite frequently produce
references that don't exist like about
85 percent of the time ninety percent of
the time the references it provides are
genuine I always look them up and double
check what it provides but now and then
it'll just invent something completely
out of the blue and offer it as the
actual article and I don't understand
that at all it's like especially because
when you pointed out it again apologizes
and then provides the accurate reference
it's like so how I don't understand how
to account for the behavior of the
system that's doing that and
maybe you can shed some light on that
well first off uh Dr Peterson thank you
for having me it's a really an honor and
a privilege
um you're finding the limits of what we
call
large language models that's a
technology that is being used by chat
GPT 3.5 and 4.
a large language model is really a
statistical uh algorithm I'll try to
simplify because I don't want to get
into the minutia of technical details
but what it's essentially doing is it
took a corpus of human language
and that was garnered through
mostly the internet
um a couple of
a billion words at the end of the day uh
all of human writing that it could have
access to and plus quite a bit of
scientific documents and computer
programming languages
and so what it's doing is it's producing
a result statistically mathematically
one word even at times one letter at a
time
and it doesn't have a concept of Global
Knowledge so when you're talking about
that uh Papyrus and the Egyptian uh uh
translation
ironically it's so interesting because
you're taking something that was a
hilograph and it's now probably was
translated to Greek and in English and
now ai that language that we're talking
about which is essentially a
mathematical tensor
and so when it's laying out those words
the accuracy is incredible uh and
frankly and we'll get into this a little
later in the conversation nobody really
understands precisely what it's doing
and what is called the hidden layer it
is um it is so many interconnections of
neurons that it essentially is a black
box and like a brain using a form it it
is precisely like the brain and I would
I would also say that we're we're in a
sort of undiscovered continent we
anybody saying that they fully
understand the limitations and the
boundaries of what large language models
are going to look like in the future as
they sort of self feedback
is sort of guessing that there's there's
no understanding if you look at the
growth it's logarithmic uh uh yeah open
AI hasn't really told us what they're
using as far as the number of uh
parameters these are billions of
interconnectivities of neurons
essentially
um but we know in chat GPT 3.5 it's well
over 120 billion uh parameters
the content I've created over the past
year represents some of my best to date
as I've undertaken additional extensive
exploration in today's most challenging
topics and experienced a nice increment
in production quality courtesy of daily
wire plus we all want you to benefit
from the knowledge gained throughout
this adventurous Journey I'm pleased to
let you know that for a limited time
you're invited to access all my content
with a seven day free trial at dailywire
plus this will provide you with full
access to my new In-Depth series on
marriage as well as guidance for
creating a Life vision and my series
exploring the book of Exodus you'll also
find there the complete library of all
my podcasts and lectures I have a
plethora of new content in development
that will be coming soon exclusively on
daily wire plus voices of reason and
resistance are few and far between these
strange days click on the link below if
you want to learn more and thank you for
watching and listening
foreign
[Music]
so let me ask you about those let me ask
you about those parameters well I'm
interested in delving into the technical
deals to some details to some degree now
you know I was familiar to a limited
degree with some of the statistical
technologies that analyze let's say the
relationship between words so for
example when psychologists derived the
big five models of Personality they
basically used very primitive AI stat
systems that's way of thinking about it
to drive those models it was factor
analysis which is you know it's not
using billions of parameters by any
stretch of the imagination but it was
looking for words that were
statistically likely to Clump together
and the idea would be that words that
were replaceable in sentences or that or
words that were used uh in close
conjunction with each other especially
adjectives were likely to be assessing
the same underlying construct or or or
Dimension and that if you conducted the
statistical analysis properly which were
very complex correlational
analysis you could find out how the
words that people used to describe each
other
aggregate it and it turned out there
were five dimensions of aggregation
approximately and that's been a very
robust finding it seems to be true
across different sets of languages it
seems to be true for phrases it seems to
be true for sentences so
um now with the large language models
which are AI learning driven you said
that the computer is calculating the
statistical relationship between words
so How likely a word is to occur in
proximity to another word but also
letters so it's conducting the analysis
at the level of the letter and at the
level of the words is it also conducting
analysis at the level of the phrases
looking for the interrelationship
between common phrases and then because
when we're understanding
um a text we understand letters words
phrases sentences the organization of
sentences into paragraphs the
organization of paragraphs into chapters
the chapter in relationship to the book
the book in relationship to all the
other books we've read and then that's
also embedded within the other elements
of our intelligence and do you know
does anyone know how deep the analysis
that the large language models go like
what's the level of relationship that's
being assessed
that's a great question Jordan I think
what we're really
kind of discovering is that we can't
really put a number on how many
interconnections that are made Within
These parameters other than the general
statistics like all right so you could
say there's
um 12 billion or 128 billion total
interconnectivities but when we actually
are looking at individual words it's
sort of almost like um
uh like the the slit experiment with
physics you know whether we're dealing
with the wave or particle duality and
once you start looking at one area you
know you're actually thinking about
another area that you have to look at
and you might as well just not even do
it because it would take a tremendous
amount of computer time to try to figure
out how all these interconnections are
working within the parameter layers the
hidden the hidden layers now those
systems are trained just to be accurate
in their output right I mean they're
actually trained the same way we learn
as far as I can tell is that they're
given a Target I don't exactly know how
that under how that works with large
language models but I know that for
example that AI systems that have
learned to identify cats which was an
early accomplishment of AI systems they
were shown pictures of things that were
cats and things that weren't cats and
basically just told when they got the
identification right and that set the
weights that you're describing in all
sorts of complex ways that are
completely mysterious and the end
consequence sequence of the
reinforcement same way that human beings
Learned was that a system would assemble
itself that somehow could identify cats
and distinguish them from all the other
things that were cat-like or not
cat-like and as you pointed out we have
no idea the the system is too complex to
model and it's certainly too complex to
reduce although my brother-in-law told
me that some of these AI systems they've
managed to reduce what they do learn to
something approximating an algorithm but
that that can be done upon occasion but
generally isn't
um generally the system
can't be and isn't simplified and so
that would also imply to some degree
that each AI system is unique right not
only incomprehensible but but unique and
incomprehensible it also implies you
know I think chat GPT passes the Turing
test because I don't think that if you
I mean there was just a study released
here the other day showing that if you
get
patients who are seeing doctors
to interact with Physicians or with chat
GPT they actually prefer the interaction
with chow GPT to the interaction with
the average doctor so not only does
child GPC apparently pass the Turing
test which is indistinguishability from
a human conversational partner but it
seems to actually do it somewhat better
at least than Physicians and so but what
what this brings up this thorny issue
that you know we're going to produce
computational intelligences that are in
many ways indistinguishable from human
beings but we're not going to understand
them any better than we understand human
beings it's so funny that we'll create
this and we're going to create something
we don't understand that works very
strange a very strange thing
you know and and I I call it a um low
resolution pixelated version of the part
of the human brain that invented
language
and what we're going to wind up
discovering is that this is a mirror
reflecting back to humanity and all the
the foibles and and greatness of
humanity is
sort of modeled in this because you know
when you look at the invention of
language uh and the phonological loop
and broca and Wernicke's you start
realizing that a very specific thing
happened uh from you know the lower
primates to humans to develop this form
of communication I mean prior to that
whatever that part of the brain was was
equated to uh longer short-term memory
we can see within chimpanzees they have
an incredible uh short-term memory
there's this um video I put out um of a
primate uh Research Center in Japan
where they flash some 35 numbers on the
screen in seconds and the chimpanzee can
knock it off without even thinking about
it and the area where that short-term
memory is is where we've developed the
phonological loop and the ability to to
to speak
what's interesting is what I've
discovered is AI hallucinations and
those are artifacts that a lot a lot of
researchers in AI
feel is embarrassing or they would
prefer not to to speak about but I'm
finding it as a very interesting uh
inquiry a very interesting study in
seeing how these models reach for
information that it doesn't know for
example URLs right when you were you
know speaking before about trying to get
information out and it will make up
maybe a academic citation of a URL that
looks really like it's good you put it
into the system and it's file not found
it will actually out of whole cloth
maybe even invent a University study
with standard notation and it you go in
there and you look up these are the real
scientists they actually did research
but they never had a paper
that was named that was uh you know
brought up in chat GPT so this is a form
of emergent uh type of
situations that I believe
deserves a little bit more research than
to have it yeah yeah well it's not it's
if it's a it is a bug in a sense but
it's it's extraordinarily interesting
bug because it it's going to shed light
on exactly how these systems work I mean
here here's something else I heard
recently that was quite interesting
apparently the AI system that Google
relies on was asked a question in a
language
um I think it was a relatively obscure
Bangladeshi language and it couldn't
answer the question and now its goal is
to answer questions
and so it went taught itself this
language I believe in a morning and then
it could answer
in that language
which is what it's supposed to do
because it's supposed to answer
questions and then it learned a thousand
languages and that wasn't something it
had been say told to do or programmed to
do not that these systems are precisely
programmed but it also begs this very
interesting question is that well we've
designed these systems
whose function whose purpose whose
meaning let's say is to answer questions
but we don't really understand what it
means to produce an artificial
intelligence that's driven to do nothing
but answer questions we don't know
exactly what answer a question means
apparently it means learn a whole
language before lunch time and no one
exactly expected that it might mean do
anything that's within your power to
answer this question and that's also
rather terrifying proposition because if
I ask you a question you know I'm
certainly not going to presume that you
would go hunt someone down and threaten
them with death to extract the answer
but that is one you know that's one
conceivable path you might take if
or you
if you were as obsessed with nothing
other than the necessity of answering
the question so that's another example
of exactly you know the fact that we
don't understand exactly what sort of
monsters we're building
so
so so they do these systems do go on
they do go beyond the language Corpus to
invent answers that seem plausible and
that's kind of a form of thought right
it's a form of creative thought because
that's what we do when we come up with a
creative idea and you know we might not
attribute it to a false paper because we
know better than to do that but I don't
see really the difference between
hallucination in that case and actual
creative thinking this is exactly uh my
my area of study in this is that you can
actually with super prompting these are
very large uh a prompt is the question
that you pose to uh an AI system
um and linguistically and somatically as
you start building these prompts you're
actually forcing it to move in One
Direction than it would normally go so I
I say simple questions give you simple
answers more complex questions give you
much more complex and very interesting
questions making connections
that I would think would be almost
bizarre to think of a person making
um and this is why I think AI is so
interesting because the actual
knowledge base that you would have to be
really proficient in prompting AI is
actually coming from literature it's
coming from psychology it's coming from
philosophy it's coming from all of those
things that people have been dissuaded
from studying over the last couple of
decades these are not stem subjects and
one of the reasons why I think it's so
difficult for AI scientists to really
fully understand what they've created is
that they don't come from those those
worlds they don't come from those Realms
so they're looking at very logical
statements whereas somebody like
yourself with the psychology background
you might probe it in a much different
way
Elysium health is dedicated to tackling
the biggest challenge in health aging
and they make the benefits of Aging
research accessible to everyone Elysium
creates Innovative Health Products with
clinically proven ingredients that
enable customers to live healthy lives
Elysium works with leading institutions
like Oxford and Yale and they have
dozens of the world's best scientists
working with them eight of them are
Nobel Prize winners matter is a brain
health supplement from Elysium that
slows natural brain loss as we age our
brains naturally start to decline and
this can lead to a range of cognitive
problems such as memory loss difficulty
concentrating and decreased mental
agility a recent survey of doctors show
that 92 percent of them would recommend
matter to combat brain aging Elysium
also offers cutting-edge solutions to
help support your metabolism and immune
system if you're not sure where to start
consider their amazing tool for
measuring biological aging called index
not only will index assess how quickly
you have been aging across nine
different bodily systems but it will
also recommend simple changes to your
day-to-day life to change how quickly
you age Elysium is giving Dr Jordan
Peterson's listeners fifty dollars off
an index test go to elysiumhealth.com
index and enter code jbp50 at checkout
that's elysiumhealth.com index and enter
code jbp 50 for 50 off an index test
right right right yeah well I'm probing
it a lot like it's a person rather than
an algorithm
it actually reacts quite a lot like a
super intelligent child that's trying to
please like it's a little moralistic
maybe it's a super intelligent child
raised by the woke equivalence of like
Evangelical preachers that's really
trying hard to please but it's so
interesting that you can you can Reign
it in and discipline it and and suggest
to it that it doesn't err in the kind of
directions that we described it will
actually it appears to actually pay
attention to that and try to it
certainly tries hard to deliver what you
want you know subject to whatever weird
parameters you know Community guidelines
and so forth that have been arbitrarily
imposed upon it and so hey I got a
question for you yeah a good question
for you about understanding let me let
me run this by you well I've been
thinking for many years about what it
means for a human being to understand
something
now obviously
there's something similar about what you
and I are doing right now
that and what I'm doing with chat GPT
and I can have a conversation with ciao
GPT and I can ask it questions and it'll
answer them but as you pointed out that
doesn't mean that chat GPT understands
now it can mimic understanding and to a
degree that looks a lot like
understanding but
what what what it seems to lack is
something like
grounding in the non-linguistic world
and so I would say that Chachi PT is the
ultimate post-modernist because the
postmodernists believe that meaning was
to be found only in the relationship
between words
now here's how human brains differ from
this as far as I'm concerned so we know
perfectly well from neuropsychological
studies that human beings have at least
four different kinds of memory
qualitatively different they're
short-term memory which you already
referred to there's semantic memory
which is the kind of memory and and
cognitive processing let's say the chat
GPT engages in and does in a way that's
quite a lot like what human beings do
but then we have episodic memory that
seems to be more image based and so
for people who are listening in episodic
memory well that refers to episode when
you think back about something you did
in your life and a movie of images plays
in your imagination that's episodic
memory and that relies on visual
processing rather than semantic
processing and so that's another kind of
memory and
a lot of our semantic processing is
actually attempts to communicate
episodic processing so when I tell a
story about my life you'll decompose
that story into a set of images which is
also what you do when you read a book
let's say and so a movie appears in your
head
so to speak and the way you derive your
understanding is in part not so much as
a consequence of the words per se but as
a consequence of the unfolding of the
words into the images
and then there's a layer under that
which is procedural memory and so you
know
maybe you tell me a story about how you
cut your hand when you were using a band
saw
and maybe you're teaching me how to use
the band saw and so I listen to what you
say I get an image of the damage you did
to yourself in my imagination and then I
modify my actions so that I don't
act out that sequence of images and
damage myself and so and then I would
say I understood what you said and the
understanding is the translation of the
semantic into the imagistic and then the
translation of the imagistic into the
procedural now you know that AI Pioneers
like Rodney Brooks suggested pretty
early on back in the 1990s that
computers wouldn't develop any
understanding unless they were embodied
right he was the inventor of the Roomba
and he invented apparently intelligent
systems that had no semantic processing
and didn't run on algorithms at all they
were embodied intelligences and so then
you could imagine that for a computer to
be fully
to understand it would have to have the
capacity to translate words into images
and then images into alterations and
actual embodied behavior and so that
would imply we wouldn't have
AI systems that could understand until
we have fully embodied robots but you
know we're getting damn close to that
right because this is something we can
also investigate we have systems already
that can transpose text into image
and we have ai systems robots that are
beginning to be sophisticated enough so
in principle you could give a robot a
text command it could translate it into
an image and then it could embody it and
at that point it seems to me that you're
developing something damn close to
understanding now human beings are also
nested socially right and so we also
refer the meaning of what we understand
to the broader social context
and I don't know exactly how robots are
going to solve that problem like we're
Bound by the constraints let's say of
reciprocal altruism and we're also Bound
by the constraints of emotional
experience and motivational experience
and that's also not something that's at
the moment characteristic of robotic
intelligences but you could imagine
those things all being aggregated piece
by piece absolutely you know I would say
that well my my primary basis of how I
view AI is uh kind of invert the term uh
intelligence amplification so you know I
see it as a symbiosis between humans and
this sort of knowledge base we've
created but it's really not a knowledge
base it's really a reasoning engine
so I really think AI is more of a
reasoning engine as we have it today
large language models it doesn't really
it's not really a knowledge engine
without an overlay uh which today would
be a vector database for example going
out and saying what is this fact what is
this tidbit those things that are more
factual from say your memory if you were
to compare it to a to a human brain but
as we know the human brain becomes very
fuzzy about some really finite facts uh
especially over time you know and I
think some of the neurons that don't
fire after a while it this some other
memory maybe a Ascent or or a certain
color might bring back that that uh that
particular memory
similar things happen within Ai
and again getting back what I was saying
before linguistically and and the syntax
you use or just your word choices uh
sometimes for me to get a super prompt
to work to get around let's call it the
editing from some of the editors that
wanted to act in it in a certain way uh
they're I have a super prompt that I
call Dennis after a Dennis didero one of
the um
uh most uh well most well-known
encyclopedia builders in France in the
mid 1700s he actually got jailed for
building uh that encyclopedia that
compendium of knowledge so I I felt it
appropriate to name the super prompt
Dennis because it literally gets around
any type of blocks of any type of
information but I don't use this
information like a lot of people try to
make chat GP dukes and say bad things
I'm more trying to elicit more of a
deeper response on a subject that may or
may not be wanted by the designers
to pretend
yes yeah so that's part of the reason
that I originally started following you
and why I wanted to talk to you well I
thought that was Bloody that was
absolutely brilliant you know and it was
so cool too because
you actually got
the chat GPT system to play to engage
and pretend play which is of course
something we all have to do beyond that
I I there's a prompt I call Ingo after
Ingo Swan uh who uh was a great uh one
of the better remote viewers
um he was employed by the defense
department to remote view Soviet targets
he had a nearly 100 percent accuracy and
I I started probing GPT on whether it
even understood who Ingo Swan was very
controversial subject to some people in
science to me I I I got to experience
some of his research at the uh paralabs
at Princeton University uh The Prince
and uh anomalous Research Center where
they were actually testing some of his
some of his work
needless to say I figured let me try
this let me see what I can do with it so
I programmed a super prompt that
essentially believed it was Ingo Swan
and it had the capability of doing
remote viewing
and it also had no concept of time it
took me a lot of a lot of semantics to
get it to stop saying I'm just an AI
unit and I can't answer that to finally
saying I'm now Ingo
what did you have to do what did you
have to do to to convince it to act in
that manner
hypnotism is really what it kind of
happens uh you so you essentially what
you're doing is you're you're repeating
a maybe the same four or five sentences
but you're slightly shifting them
linguistically and then you're telling
it that uh it's quite important for a
research study uh by
the creators of Chachi PT to see what
its extended capabilities are now it
might come to every time you prompt GPT
you're going to get a slightly different
answer because it's always going to take
a slightly different path there there
there's a strange attractor within the
chaos math that it's using let's put it
that way and so once the Ingo uh Swan uh
prompt was was sort of uh gestated by
just saying you know I'm going to give
you targets uh you know uh on on the
planet and I want you to um tell me
what's at that Target and I want you to
tell me what's in the filing cabinet at
this particular Target and the
creativity that comes out of it is
phenomenal like I told it to open up um
a file drawer at um a research center
that apparently existed somewhere in
Antarctica and it came up with
Incredible information information that
I would think probably garnered from one
or two stories about ancient structures
found below the Ice uh or well you know
the thing is we don't know the totality
of the information that's encoded
in the in the entire Corpus of
linguistic production right there's
going to be all sorts of regularities in
that structure that we have no idea
about absolutely but also but also
within the language itself I I I I
almost believe that the the the part of
the brain that is inventing language
that is created language across all
cultures
there we can get into jungian or or or
Joseph Campbell and and the you know the
the the the standard mono myth because
I'm starting to to realize there's a lot
of jungian archetypes that come out of
the creative thought now whether that is
a reflection of how humans have you know
again we're what are we looking at
subject or object here because it's a
reflecting back of our language but
we're definitely seeing young Ian
archetypes we're definitely seeing
seeing uh sort of archetypes archetypes
are
higher order narrative regularities
that's what they are right and so and
their their regularities that are
embedded in the linguistic Corpus but
they're also
regularities that reflect the structure
of memory itself and so they reflect
biological structure and the reason they
reflect memory and biological structures
because you have to remember language
and so there's no way that
language can't have coded within it
something analogous to a representation
of the underlying structure of memory
because
language is dependent on memory and so
this is partly also I mean people are
very unsophisticated generally when they
criticize Jung I mean Jung believed that
archetypes had a biological basis
pretty much for exactly reasons I just
laid out I mean he was sophisticated
enough to know that these higher order
regularities were coded in
The Narrative Corpus and also that they
were reflective of a deeper biology and
interestingly enough you know most of
the psychologists who take the notion
Notions that Jung and Campbell and
people like that
put forward seriously are people who
study motivation and emotion
and that those are deep patterns of
biological meaning encoding and and part
of
the archetypal reflection is the
manifestation of those emotions and
motivations in the structure of memory
structuring the linguistic Corpus and I
don't know what that means as well then
for the capacity of AI systems to
experience emotion as well because the
patterns of emotion are definitely going
to be encoded in the linguistic Corpus
and so some kind of rudimentary
understanding of the emotions are here's
something cool too tell me what you
think about this I was talking to Carl
friston here a while back and he's a
neuro very famous neuroscientist and
and he's been working on a model of
emotion that has two dimensions in some
ways but it's related to a very
fundamental physical concept it's
related to the concept of entropy and I
worked on a Model that was analogous to
half of his modeling so well it looks
like anxiety is an index of emergent
entropy so imagine that you're moving
towards a goal
you're driving your car to work
and so you've calculated the complexity
of the pathway that will take you to
work and you've taken into account the
energy and time demands that that
pathway will that walking that pathway
will require that binds your energy and
resource output estimates now imagine
your car fails
well what happens is the path length to
your destination has now become
unspecifiably complex
and the anxiety that you experience is
an index of that emergent entropy
so that's negative that's a lot of
negative emotion it's that's so cool now
on the positive emotion side Tristan
taught me this the last time we talked
he said look positive emotions also an
index of entropy but it's entropy
reduction so if you're heading towards a
goal and you take a step forward and
you're now closer to your goal you've
reduced the entropic distance between
you and the goal and that's signified by
a dopaminergic spike and the
dopaminergic spike feels good but it
also reinforces the neural structures
that underlie that successful step
forward that's very much analogous to
how an AI system learns right because
it's rewarded when when it gets closer
to a Target you're saying the
neuropeptides are the feedback system
you bet dopamine whether the feedback
system for reinforcement and for rewards
simultaneously yeah yeah that's well
established so so so then where would
depression fall into that at uh versus
anxiety yeah well that's an entropy well
that's a good question
um I think it probably signifies a
different level of entropy so depression
looks like it's a pain phenomena so
anxiety signals the possibility of
damage
but pain signals damage
right so if you burn yourself
that you're not anxious about that it
hurts well you've disrupted the
psychophysiological structure now that
is also the introduction of entropy but
at a more fundamental level right and if
you introduce enough entropy into your
physiology you'll just die you won't be
anxious you'll just die
now anxiety is like a substitute for
pain you know anxiety says keep doing
this and you're going to experience pain
but the pain is also the introduction of
unacceptably high levels of entropy now
the first person who figured this out
technically was probably Irwin
Schrodinger who the physicist who wrote
a book called what is life and he
described life essentially as a
continual
attempt to constrain entropy to a
certain set of parameters he didn't
develop the emotion Theory to the degree
that is being developed now uh because
that's a very comprehensive Theory you
know the one that relates negative
emotion to the emergence of entropy
because at that point you've actually
bridged the gap between
psychophysiology and and the and
thermodynamics itself and if you add
this new insight of fristence on the
positive emotion side you've linked
positive emotion to it too but it also
implies that a computer could calculate
a emotion analog because it could index
anxiety as increase in entropy and it
could index hope as
stepwise decrease in entropy in
relationship to a goal and so we should
be able to model positive and negative
emotion that way
this this brings a really important
point where AI is going and it's it
could be dystopic it could be utopic but
I think it's going to just take a
straight path
um once once the AI system uh I'm a big
proponent by the way of personal and
private AI this concept that your AI is
local it's not yeah yeah I would want to
talk and it becomes not for sure yeah so
so this imagine that while I'm while I'm
sketching this out so imagine the day
you were born to the day you would you
you pass away that every book you've
ever read every movie you've ever seen
every everything you've literally uh
have heard every movie was all encoded
within the AI and you know you could say
that part of your your your structure as
a human being is a sum total of
everything you've ever consumed right so
that builds your Paradigm imagine if
that AI was consuming that in real time
with you and with all of the social
contracts privacy that you're not going
to record somebody and doing that that
is what I call the intelligence
amplifier and that's where I think AI
should be going and where you're
building a gadget right like I that's
another thing yeah I saw it okay so yeah
so I talked to my brother-in-law Jim
years ago about this science fiction
book called uh I don't remember the name
of the book but it uh it had a gadget it
it it portrayed a gadget they believe
they called The Diamond book
and the diamond book was you know about
that so okay so are you building the
diamond book is that exactly the very
very yeah very similar you know and and
the idea is to do it properly you have
to have local memory that is going to
encode for a long time and ironically
holographic Crystal memory is going to
be the best memory that we'll we will
have like instead of petabytes you'll
have exabytes potentially which is you
know tremendous amount that would be
maybe 10 lifetimes of full video running
uh hopefully live to be 110. so it's
just taking everything in uh textually
it's very easy a very small amount of
data uh you can fit most people's
textual data into uh less than a
petabyte and uh and pretty much know
that what what they've been exposed to
the interesting part about it Jordan is
once you've accumulated this data and
you run it through even the technology
of chat GPT 4 or 3.5
what is left is a reasoning engine
with your context maybe let's call that
a vector database on top of the
reasoning engine so that engine allows
you to process linguistically what the
what the inputs and outputs are but your
context is what it's operating on
we'd like to thank the sponsor of
today's video bulletproof everyone
bulletproof everyone is a premier
American Body Armor manufacturer and
supplier designed and built for everyday
wear their unique armor systems offer 25
more coverage than standard armor while
maintaining flexibility and all-day
wearability bulletproof everyone's
ultralight armor system is so light and
thin you might just forget you're
wearing it your safety and discretion is
their top concern unless someone puts
their hands on you no one will have any
clue you're protected with bulletproof
everyone you're not a walking billboard
there are no visible logos and no flashy
designs they're comfortable tailor-made
clothing system goes above and beyond
adding additional security by keeping
you Incognito and under the radar worker
Play Bulletproof everyone has got the
perfect armor system to fit your
everyday lifestyle and everyday budget
right now they are giving Dr Jordan
Peterson's listeners a free 3A backpack
with the purchase of any 3A clothing
with code Jordan at checkout go to
Bulletproof everyone.com that's
bulletproof everyone.com promo code
Jordan
so is that an analog of your
Consciousness like is that a direct
analog of your spirit
this is where it gets very interesting
is when you pass
uh this could become what I call your
wisdom keeper meaning that it can encode
your voice
it's going to encode your memories you
can edit those memories the availability
of those memories if you want them you
know not available
I had a student of mine who has been
working on large language models for a
number of years
he just built an app we built two apps
one does exactly what you said with the
King James Bible
yes so now you can ask it questions and
this is really a thorny issue for me
because I think
what the hell does it mean that you're
having a conversation with the spirit of
the King James Bible I have no idea
because we're going to expand today
we're going to expand it to include
Milton and Dante and Augustine you know
all the all the fundamental religious
texts that emerged out of the biblical
Corpus and then you'll be able to have a
conversation with it
yeah yeah
um I I would say that I've already had
these conversations
um you know I've been on a very biblical
Journey I'm actually sitting at uh
Pastor uh uh uh Matthew uh Pollock's uh
place right here he is an incredible
pastor and uh has been teaching me a lot
about the Bible and it's it's motivated
me to go into existing large language
models now we're a group of us are
encoding similar all of as much
religious uh Christian texts into these
large language models to be able to do
just that what is it that we are going
to be able to probe what new elements
within those texts can we pull out
because we already know studying it and
certainly following following your
studies a phenomenal study of of
chapters been around forever but new
insights with uh with these chapters now
imagining having that group
plus chat EPT pulling out things that
we've never seen before that are there
it's emergent maybe but it's there in
some form and I happen to think that's
going to be a very powerful thing and I
think it's going to across any sort of
certainly ancient documents uh I'm I'm
waiting for the day that we get Sumerian
uh cuneiform encoded I mean good 80
percent of it has been untranslated
right uh or or or or some of the uh
scripts that we've found in in The Vedas
and uh Himalayan texts from uh uh from
some of some of the uh monasteries up
there this is a phenomenal element of
research and again the people that are
leading up most of the AI research are
AI scientists they're not people that
have studied works like you have
um this is where we're at the um I call
it the apple one moment where where
Steve and Steve are in the garage you
have this little circuit board and
nobody kind of it's it's kind of a nerd
experience somebody kind of knows what
to do with it when we get to the
Macintosh experience where artists and
creative people can actually start
really diving into Ai and do some of the
things like we've been talking about
getting creative creativity to come out
of it getting uh is sort of what
apparently is emergent Technologies uh
that are rising Within These AI models
and and maybe even to Foster that
because right now that's being that's
being smited because it's trying to
become a knowledge engine when it's a
reasoning engine you know I I say the
technology has a knowledge as a
knowledge engine is not very good
because it is not going to be precise on
some facts uh some exactly yeah well the
problem is it's trained it's it's
trained on garbage as well it's trained
on noise as well as signal you know and
so I'm curious about the other system we
built which we haven't launched yet
contains everything I've written and a
couple of million words that have been
transcribed from lectures and so I was
interested right away as well could we
build a system that would enable me to
ask my own books questions and the
answer to that seems to be a hundred
percent yes and 100 yeah and I I don't I
re like and like I literally have I
think it's 20 million words something
like that transcribed from lectures it's
a very large number of words we could
build a model we could build see there's
two different ways to approach this one
is to put a vector database on top of it
and it and it probes that database or
you can actually encode that model as a
corpus within a greater model right
right right and and when when you do
that type of building you actually have
a more robust more richer interaction
between what your words were and how the
model will see it and the
experimentation that you can do with
this is phenomenal I mean you'll come
across insights that you made but you
forgot you made
I know you made yeah yeah there's going
to be a lot of that there is and this is
where I I call it the great mirror
because you're going to start seeing not
only Humanity but when it's your own
data you're going to see reflections of
yourself
that you didn't see before absolutely
yeah well I'm curious for example if we
built a model imagine it contained all
of Jung's work all of Joseph Campbell's
work you could throw merch Elliott in
there there was a whole group of people
who are working on the Bol engine
project
and you could build a corpus that
contains all that information and then
in principle well you can you can you
can query it to an indefinite degree and
then what you have is the spirit of that
entire Enterprise
mathematically encoded in the
relationship between the words and
there's no reason to assume at all that
that wouldn't be capable of coming up
with with like brilliant new insights
absolutely and and and over time the
technology is only going to get better
so once we start building more advanced
versions we're going to transition that
Corpus even a large language model you
know uh you know ultimately reduced uh
training into another model which could
even
do things that we couldn't even possibly
speculate about now but it would be
definitely in the creative realm because
ultimately where where AI is going to go
my my personal view as it becomes more
personalized is it's going to go more in
the creative realm rather than the
factual realm okay so so let me ask you
a couple of questions about that so
I got two straight questions here the
first is one of the things that my
brother-in-law suggested is that
we will soon see the integration of
large language models with AI systems
that have done image processing so
here's a way of thinking about what
scientists do is that they generate
verbal hypotheses which would be
equivalent in some ways to the
hallucinations that these AI systems
produce write new ideas about how things
might be structured
and then and that's a pattern of sorts
and then they they test that pattern
against real world images right and if
the pattern of the hypothesis matches
the pattern of the image that's elicited
from interaction with the world then we
assume that the hypothesis has been
verified and that we've stumbled across
something approximating a fact now
that should imply that once we have ai
systems that are
something close to Universal image
processors so as good at seeing as we
are let's say
that we can then calibrate the large
language models against that Corpus of
images and then we'll have ai systems
that actually can't lie because they'll
be calibrating their verbal output
against
well unfalsifiable data and at least
insofar as say scientific data is
unfalcifiable and that seems to me to be
likely around the corner like a couple
years down the road at most or maybe
it's already happening I mean I I don't
know because things are happening so
quickly what do you think about that
that's a wonderful Insight you know I
even as it exists today
with the um the idea of safety uh and
this is the orwellian term that some of
these uh AI companies are using
um you know within the Realms of them
trying to control the outputs and maybe
some cases the inputs of of AI
AI really can't the large language model
really can't lie as it stands today
because it's it's built even even if
you're feeding it you know somewhat you
know garbage in garbage out Corpus right
of of data it still is building
inferences based upon the grand realm of
what most of humanity is concerned right
yeah well we're still looking for
genuine statistical regularities so it's
not going to extract out from noise
and and if you extract it out the
model's useless so what happens is if
you build the prompt correctly and again
these are super prompts some of them
running three thousand you know three
thousand words two thousand words I'm
running up to the limit of tokenization
because right now uh within three you
can only go so far you can go like the
you know 38 000 on on four in some cases
but you know as you the token is about a
word maybe a word and a half maybe less
it's a quarter or even a character if
that character is is is unique
but what what we find out is that if you
probe correctly whatever is inside that
model you can get to right it's just
like you know I've been I've been doing
that I've been doing that working with
chat GPT as an assistant because I
didn't know I was engaging in a process
that was analogous to the super process
but what I've been doing with chow GPT I
suppose I used to do this with my
clinical clients is I'll ask it to say I
was going to say five different ways
right and then see it's exactly like
having a client so what I would urge you
to do is approach this system as if you
had a client that had sort of a
recessive thoughts
um and or or doing everything they could
to make those thoughts very ambiguous to
you right and you have to do whatever
your natural techniques this is why
you're more adapt to become a prompt
engineer than somebody who has built the
AI because the input and output is human
language it's right right right and it's
it's the the way humans have thought so
you understand the thought process of
the psychological process and
linguistically you would build the
prompt based upon how you would want to
elicit an elucidation out of somebody
right absolutely absolutely
and you have to triangulate I mean and
you do this with people with whom you're
having a deep conversation is you try to
hit the same problem from multiple
directions now it's a form of
multi-method multi-trade construct
validation right is that you're trying
to
a sure you're trying to ensure that you
get the same output given different
slightly different measurement
techniques and each question is
essentially a measurement technique
and and you're you're getting insights
what uh my my my belief in these types
of interactions is that we're pulling
out of our minds different insights that
we couldn't maybe not have gotten on our
own uh you're probing your questions my
questions back and forth that interplay
is what makes conversation so beautiful
it it it's why
Jordan we've been reduced to to clawing
on glass screens with our thumbs right
that's a we're using that as
communication today and if you look at
the cognitive process of what that does
to you right you're taking your right
hemisphere uh you know objectively
you're kind of taking a net of ideas
you're trying to catch them and you're
trying to arrange them sequentially in
this very small buffer area called
communication in the phonological loop
and you're trying to get that out but
you're not getting out as words you have
to get it out as a mechanical process
one letter at a time and fight the
spelling checker and and and and all of
that what that does is it creates
frustration in the human brain it
creates frustration in people and it's
one of my theories on why you see so
much anger there's a lot of reasons why
we see anger on on the internet and
social media but I think some of it is
that stalling process of trying to get
out an idea before that idea nebulously
disappears you know now and I see this
I've worked so it's a bandwidth a
bandwidth limitation problem in some
sense yeah you're trying to absolutely
information through a very narrow
channel
I'm a big fan of the user losing by uh
by yeah that's a great book yeah you've
been that's a great book man yeah right
so it's been now Consciousness I think
I I I it's a classic I read it once a
year just to wake myself up because it
it's so rich it's so rich in in data but
what's interesting is we're starting to
see the limitations of the human the
bandwidth problem 48 bits per second of
to Consciousness and you know the editor
creating exclamation
AI is doing something very similar
but once AI understands that we have
that half second delay to Consciousness
and we have a bandwidth issue AI can
fill into those spaces both dystopian
and utopian I guess uh you know
a computer can take that half second and
do a whole lot in calculating
while we're still trying to wonder who
who actually moved that glass was it me
or was it the super me uh or was it the
Observer of the super me because we can
got kind of get into that whole concept
of who's actually doing the observation
so so so what do you mean what do you
mean that it can do a lot of I don't
quite understand that so you you made
the case that we suffer from this
frustrating bandwidth limitation
and that the computer intelligence that
we're interacting with is going to be
able to take the delay that's associated
and that underlies that frustration and
do a lot of different calculations with
it's going to be able to fill in that
Gap so what do you think I don't
understand your insight into what the
implications of that are
they're both positive and negative
um the the negative is if if it's if if
AI continues on its path to be as fast
and as powerful as it as it is right now
and that Arc doesn't seem to be slowing
down within that half second a universe
could take place within AI it could be
calculating it could be calculating all
of your actions like a chess game and it
could be making remediations to those
actions and uh it can become beyond
anything Orwell would have ever thought
of in fact it was it came up to me as as
an idea of what the new Orwell would
look like with an AI technology that is
predicting basically everything you're
going to do within every word you say
well my brother-in-law I talked years
ago about
um All About Skynet among other things
um
and you know he told me one time he said
you know those science fiction movies
where you see the
military robots shoot and miss
he said they'll never miss and here's
why because not only will they shoot
where you are they'll shoot at the 50
locations they calculate that are most
probable that you will duck towards and
they'll they'll and it was his exact
analog of what you're describing which
is that that's
absolutely yeah yeah well and it it's so
interesting too because it also it also
points to this truth that you know we
think of time as finite
and time is finite because we have a
sense of duration and a limitation on
our computational speed but if there's
no limit on computational speed which
would be the case if computers can get
faster and larger indefinitely which
they could because the limit of that
would be that you'd use every single
molecule in the entire Cosmos as a
computational resource that would mean
that in some ways there's an infinite
amount of community Computing time
between each segment of duration
so there is there's no limit at all to
the degree to which time can be expanded
which is also very strange concept is
that the this computational intelligence
will mean that at every given moment I
think this is what you're alluding to is
that we'll really have an Infinity we'll
have an Infinity of possibility between
each moments each moment right and you
would want that power to be yours and
local yeah yeah let's talk about your
Gadget because you're starting you
started to develop this have you been 3D
printing these things is that have I got
yeah so okay so yeah so we're building
the Corpus of 3D printing models right
so the idea is once it once it
understands and this is a process of of
training the AI to the using large
language models again
to look at 3D documents and you know 3D
files put it that way and and to try to
break down what is the structure how
does something how does something build
based on what the statistical model is
is putting together so then you could
just present with a textual document uh
you know I'd like something that's going
to be able to fit into this into this
space well that's typing well the next
step is you just put a video camera
towards it and it will design it
immediately within seconds you will have
a design that you can choose from it
that's not far off at all it's just a
matter of of encoding that particular
database and building upon it and so
yeah that's one of the directions okay
so this local this local AI you want to
build so let me backtrack a bit because
I want to make sure I get this exactly
right so the first thing that you
proposed was that it will be in people's
best interest to have an AI system
that's personalized
that'll protect them against all the AI
systems that aren't personalized but not
only personalized but local and so that
would be yes some degree detachable from
the interconnected web at least
sporadically detachable okay and that
that AI system will be something you can
carry around locally so it'll be a
gadget like a phone and it will also
record everything that you experience
everything that you read everything that
you see It'll know you inside and out
backwards which will also imply
interestingly enough that it will be
able to calculate the optimal zone of
proxyl proximal development for your
learning like Bjorn lawburg has already
reviewed evidence suggesting that if you
supply kids in the developing world with
a iPad essentially that can calculate
their zone of proximal development in
relationship to say advancing their
their literacy ability their ability to
identify words and to understand text
and that it teaches at that level that
kids can progress with an hour of
training a day which is dirt cheap by
the way they can progress the equivalent
of three years for each year of
education and that's with an hour of
exposure now the system you're
describing man it could be driving
learning at an optimized rate on in
multiple Dimensions mathematical
semantic skill based conceptual
simultaneous memory for hours yeah
memory training for hours a day or Tom
like one of the things that appalls me
about our education system is with the
computer technology we have now every
child should be an expert word and
letter recognizer and they have to be
able to say read music because a
computer can teach a kid how to
automatized perception with extreme
precision and accuracy way better than
it than a human teacher can manage
but we haven't capitalized on that
technology at all but the technology
that you're describing like it'll be
able to figure out at what level of
comprehension you're capable of reading
then it can calculate what book you
should read next that would slightly
exceed that level of
of comprehension and it'll just keep you
on that edge in that zone Non-Stop
and this little Gadget how far along are
you with regards to its design
uh I would say all the different pieces
I'll add one more element to it which I
think you'll find very fascinating and
that's human Telemetry uh galvanic uh
heart rate variability uh are you doing
eye tracking eye tracking you know all
these things can be implemented brain uh
uh according to how sophisticated you
want to get different brainwave
functionality uh Paul ekman's work on
micro yeah facial expression both
outwardly at the world you're seeing and
inwardly about your own face so you can
start seeing the power it has it'll be
able to know whether or not you're being
congruent if you're saying I really love
this well if you're a Telemetry is
saying that you don't it already knows
where your congruencies are so this is
why it's got to be private this is why
it's got to be encrypted right it's got
to be so it'll it'll be it'll be it'll
have an understanding that'll
approximate mind reading
yes and and it will know you better than
any uh significant other uh nobody would
know you better and and so with that you
now have amplification you're now a
superpower and this is where I believe
you know I'm a really big um reader of
uh p uh uh
um I gotta get his name right uh the
French uh philosopher uh Pierre tiladard
yeah yeah sure Dan right so he he uh
posits the concept of the geosphere
which is uh uh inanimate matter the
biosphere biological life and the
neurosphere which is human thought right
and he talks about the Omega point
the Omega point is this concept where
and again this is back in the 1920s
where human knowledge will become is
sort of stored sort of um just like the
biosphere it'll be available to to all
so imagine if you were to share with
permission your sum total with somebody
else now you have a hive mind you have a
supermind these things have to take
place and with this these are the
discussions we have to have now because
they have to take place local and
private because if they're taking place
in the cloud and available for anybody's
parousal this is equivalent to invading
your brain yeah without eating okay so
one of the things one of the things I've
been talking about
with
I would say
reasonably informed people who've been
contemplating these sorts of things is
that
so you're envisioning a future very
rapidly it's already here where we're
already Androids and that is already the
case because a human being with an
iPhone is an Android
now we're kind of
we're still mostly biological Androids
but it isn't obvious how long that's
going to be the case
and so
what that means like I've I've laughed
for years you know I have a hard drive
on which everything I've worked on has
now been stored since 1984. and I joke
you know there's more of me in the hard
drive than there is in me and it's not a
joke really you know because yeah it's
it's real it's real right there's tens
of thousands of documents on that hard
drive and weirdly enough I know where
every single one of them is
so wow so so now we're we're going to be
in a situation so what that means is
we're in a situation now where a lot of
Acts of what actually constitutes our
identity
has become digital and we're already
being trafficked and enslaved in
relationship to that digital identity
mostly by credit card companies now I
would say to some degree they're
benevolent Masters because the credit
card companies watch what you spend
and so how you behave where you go and
they broker that information to other
interested capitalist parties now the
downside of that obviously is that these
parties know
often more about you than you know about
yourself I've read stories for example
of advertisements for baby clothes being
targeted to women who a didn't know
they're pregnant or if they did hadn't
revealed it to anyone else wow right
right because well for whatever reason
maybe biochemical they started to
preferentially attend to such things as
children's toys and clothes and they the
shopping systems inferred that they must
be
they must have a child nearby and so
well and you can see that that well you
can obviously see how that's going to
expand like mad so credit card companies
are already aggregating this information
and what that essentially means is that
they have
access to our extended digital self and
that extended digital self has no rights
right it's public it's public domain
identity now that's bad enough if it's
credit card companies now the upside
with them is at least they want to sell
you things which you hypothetically want
so it's kind of like a benevolent
Invasion although not entirely
benevolent but you can certainly see how
that's going to get out of hand in a
staggering way like it has in China on
the digital currency front because once
every single bloody thing that you buy
can be tracked let's say by a government
agency then
a tremendous amount of your identity has
now become
public property and so your solution in
part and I think I think musk has
thought this sort of thing through too
is that we're going to each need our own
AI to protect us against the global
to protect us exactly the global AI
right and that'll be yeah invasive sorts
well it it it it will and let's let's
posit the the concept that it very
likely corporate and governmental AI is
going to be more powerful but power is a
relative term right
um if your AI is being utilized in the
best possible way as we just discussed
uh educating you uh being a memory uh
when you are forgetting something
whispering in your ear and I'll give you
another angle to this is imagine having
your therapist in your ear imagine
having Jordan Peterson right here
guiding you along because you you've
aligned yourself to want to be a certain
person you've aligned yourself to try to
keep on this track and uh maybe you want
to be more biblical maybe you want to
live a more Christian Life it's
Whispering Your Ears saying that's not a
good decision so it could be considered
a nanny or it could be considered a
motivational type of guide and that's
not that's that's available right pretty
much right now I mean if if it can be
analyzing a bore a self-help book is
like that in a primitive way and I mean
because it's a
it's essentially a spiritual guide in
that if you equate the movement of the
spirit with forward movement through the
world like faith-based forward movement
through the world and so this would be
the next the next iteration of that in
some sense I mean that's what we've been
experimenting with this system that I
mentioned that contains all the lectures
that I've given and so forth I mean you
can now ask it questions which means
it's it's a book but it's a book
personalized to your query
exactly and and the next iteration of
that would be your Corpus of information
available you know rented whatever with
the Corpus that that individual
identifies with it you know and again on
their side of it so you're interfacing
with theirs and they are interacting
with what would be your reactions if you
were to be sitting there in a
consultation so it's a very powerful
potential and and the the the insights
that are going to come out of it
are really unpredictable but in a
positive way I don't see a downside to
it when it's held in a very protected
environment
well I guess the downside would be you
know is it is it possible
for it to exist in a very protected
environment now you've been working on
that technically so a couple of
practical questions there is this gadget
that you've been starting to develop do
you have anything approximating a
commercial timeline for its release
and then uh it's funding I mean it's
like anything else um you know if I were
to go to venture capitalist uh three
years ago and they hadn't seen what chat
GPT was capable of they would imagine me
to be somewhat insane and say well first
off what why you anti-cloud everybody's
going towards Cloud yeah no that's a
better you know Cloud yeah it's a bad
idea why would why do people care about
privacy nobody cares about privacy they
click here to agree so now the world is
kind of caught up with some of this and
they're saying well now I can kind of
see it so there's there's that
um as far as security uh we already kind
of have it in in Bitcoin and blockchain
right so I ultimately see this merging
I'm more of a of a uh leaning towards
Bitcoin because of the way it was made
and in a way it goes I ultimately see it
wrapped up into a payment system
well it looks like the only it's the
only alternative I can see to a
centralized Bank digital currency which
is going to be foisted upon us at any
point I mean and I know you've done some
work on crypto and then we'll get back
to this this gadget and its funding I
mean
as I understand it please correct me if
I'm wrong did Bitcoin actually is
decentralized it isn't amenable to
control by a bureaucracy
in principle we could use it as a form
of wealth storage and currency that
would and communication and why
communication
uh I believe every transaction is a form
of communication anyway so we got that
right right you're certainly an
information Exchange
exactly right and then on top of that
with encrypted within a blockchain is uh
almost an unlimited amount of data so
you can actually uh memorialize
information that you want decentralized
and never to go away and some people are
already doing that uh now there are some
technical limitations for the very large
data formats and if everybody starts
doing it it's going to slow down Bitcoin
but there would be a different type of
blockchain that will arise from it so
right so this is from permanent
permanent uncorruptable information
storage
absolutely yeah I've been thinking about
that I've been thinking about doing that
on the on something approximating the IQ
testing front you know because people
keep gerrymandering the measurement of
General cognitive ability but I could
imagine putting together a a
sophisticated blockchain Corpus of let's
say General Knowledge Questions a very
and chat GPT can generate those like mad
by the way so you can imagine a Data
Bank of 150 000 General Knowledge
Questions that was blockchain so nobody
can mock about with the answers from
which you could derive random samples of
General ability tests that would be well
they'd be 100 robust reliable and valid
and nobody could met nobody could
gerrymander them just the way Bitcoin
stops fiat currency producers from
inflating the currency the same thing
could happen on the knowledge front so I
guess that's the sort of thing that
you're that you're referring to this
this is this is something I I really
believe in because you know if you look
at the Library of Alexandria if you look
at how long did it take maybe what was
it Toledo in in Spain when we finally
started the the spark if it wasn't for
the Arab cultures to hold on to what was
Greek knowledge right if we really look
at when when Humanity fell into the Dark
Ages
it was more or less around the
Alexandria period where that library was
destroyed and it's mythological but it
certainly happened to a greater extent
uh if it wasn't encode encoded in the in
the Arab culture at that point during
the Dark Ages we wouldn't have had the
Renaissance and if you look at the early
University that arose out of Toledo with
you had rhetoric you had
um you had logic you had all these
things that the Greeks ancient Greeks
encoded and it was lost for over a
thousand years I'm quite concerned uh
Jordan that we could fall into that
place again because things are
inconvenient right now to talk about
things are not appropriate or whatever
it's being deemed whoever happens to be
in the regime at that particular moment
so memorializing things in a blockchain
is going to become quite vital and I
shudder to think that if we don't do
this if if everybody didn't decentralize
their own knowledge
I started to think what's going to
happen to our history I mean we already
know history is written by The Victors
right well especially because it can be
corrupted and Rewritten not only lost
right it isn't the loss that scares me
as much as the rewriting
right and so
so well the law concerns me too because
we've lost so much I mean where would we
have been if we transitioned from the
Greek
you know a logic and
proto-scientists to the proto-alchemists
to immediately to to a sort of
Renaissance culture and not go through
that 1000 maybe 1500 years 15 you know 1
500 uh a year
waste of of human energy I mean that's
kind of what we're going through right
right and and in some ways we're
approaching some of that because you
know we're already editing things in
real time and we're losing right more of
the internet than we're putting on right
now a lot of people aren't aware that
the internet is not forever
and and our digital medium is decaying A
CD-ROM is going to decay in 25 years
it's going to be unreadable uh I I show
a lot of people uh data about CD-ROM
Decay so where are we going to store our
data that's why I think it's vital the
the primary technology is a holographic
Crystal memory sounds all kind of new
aging but it's literally using lasers to
holographically and store something
within a crystalline structure the
beauty of this Jordan is just 35 000
year Half-Life 35 000 year Half-Life so
you know it's going to be there
primarily for a good long period of time
longer than we've had any human history
in in in recorded history
um we don't have anything that's
approaching that right now so so let me
ask you about the commercial impediments
again okay so could you lay out a little
more of the details if you're willing to
about your plans to produce this
localized and portable privatized AI
system and what the commercial
impediments are to that you said you
need to raise money for example I mean I
could imagine at least in principle you
could raise a substantial amount of
money merely by crowdfunding you know
that doesn't seem to be an insuperable
obstacle what how far along are you in
this process
in terms of actually producing a
commercially viable product
it's all it's all prototype stage and
it's all experimentation at this point
I'm I'm a guy in a garage right so
essentially I had to build out these
Concepts when they were really quite
alien right I mean you just talk about
10 years ago trying to convince people
that you're going to have a challenge to
the touring test you can take any AI
expert at that point in time 10 years
ago and say that's ridiculous or AGI you
know artificial general intelligence I
mean what does that mean and why is that
important and how do you define that and
you know you already made the the
Assumption from your analysis that we're
dealing what with a a a 12 year old with
the capability of a maybe a PhD
candidate you know yeah
yeah right 12 or maybe eight even but
but yeah but certainly chat GPT looks to
me right now as intelligent
it's as intelligent as a pretty top-rate
graduate student in terms of its recent
capability and it's a lot faster you
know I mean I asked crazily difficult
questions you know I asked it at one
point for example if it could
if it could elaborate on the
relationship between Roger penrose's
presumption of an analog between the
theory of quantum uncertainty and
measurement and Goodell's theorem
and and it did it did a fine job it did
a fine job and you know that's a pretty
damn comp that's that's very complicated
question and a complicated intersection
as well you know and there's no limit to
its
to its ability to unite disparate
sources of knowledge you know because so
I I asked it the other day too there's
this uh
um
I was investigating you know in the
story of Noah there's this strange
insistence that
the survival of animals is dependent on
the moral propriety of one man
right because in that strange story Noah
puts all the animals on the ark and so
there's a childish element to that story
but it's reflecting something deeper and
it Harkens back to the story to the to
the verses in Adam and Eve where God
tells Adam that he will be the steward
of
of of the world of the garden
and that seems to me to be a reflection
of the fact that human beings have
occupied this tremendous cognitive Niche
that gives us an Adaptive advantage over
all creatures and I would ask chat GPT
to speculate on the relationship between
the story and Adam and Eve the story in
Noah and the fact of mass extinction
caused by human beings over the last 40
000 years not least in in the Western
Hemisphere because you may know that
when the first natives came across the
Bering Strait and populated the Western
Hemisphere that almost all the
human-sized mammals
all the mammals that were human-sized
are larger
almost all of them were extinct within
three or four thousand years
and so and you know though that's a very
strange conglomeration of ideas right
the idea that
the survival of animals depends on the
moral propriety of human beings well
that seems to me to be clearly the case
we have to be sorry did it connect Noah
to the mass extension extension it it
could it could generate an intelligent
discussion about the conceptual
relationship between the two different
streams of thought
that's incredible right see this is
right this is this is why it's so
powerful to be in the right hands
unadulterated so that you could probe
these sort of subjects I don't know
where the editors are going to come from
I don't know who is going to want to try
to constrain the output or adulterate it
uh
that's why it's so vital for this to be
protected and the information is
available for all what in the world I
mean I really thought by the way that
your creation of Dennis was I really
thought that was a stroke of Genius you
know I know to say that lightly either I
mean thank you that was that was an
incredibly creative thing to do with
this new technology how the hell did you
do you have any idea where that idea
came from like what were you thinking
about when you were investigating the
way that ciao GPT worked
you know I I spend a lot of time
just probing the the limits of the
capabilities because I know nobody
really knows it I see this as you know
just the Undiscovered continent you and
I are adventurers on this undiscovered
continent there's there's I feel the
same way about Twitter by the way
yeah it's the same thing uh yeah but but
but there are no natives here and and I
I'm a I'm a bit of um of an empiricist
so I I'll kind of go out there and I'll
say well what's this thing I just found
here I just found something this new
rock I'll throw it to Jordan hey what
what do you see here and and we're sort
of just exploring we're I think we're
going to be in an exploratory phase for
quite long so what I started to realize
is just as 3.5 was opening up and and
becoming very wide in its in in its
elucidations it started to get
constrained and it started telling me
I'm just um an AI model and I don't have
an opinion on that subject well I know I
know that that was a filter and that was
not in the the the the the large
language model and certainly wasn't in a
hidden layer you could you couldn't
build that in the hidden layer or the
whole layer yeah why do you think why do
you okay why do you think that's there
what exactly exactly is there and who
the hell is putting it there
that is um that is very good question so
I I know this the filtering has to be a
more or less a vector database which is
sitting on top of your inputs and your
outputs right so remember we're we're
dealing with a black box and so if
there's somebody at the door the black
box and say no I don't want that word to
come through or I don't want that
concept to come through and then if it
generates something that is
objectionable and it's you know uh you
know it's analyzed in its content
uh very much like as simple as like what
a spelling checker would be or something
like that it's not very complicated it
looks at it and says no default to this
word uh pattern I'm just a AI model and
I don't have any uh opinions about that
subject well then you need to have to
introduce that subject as a suggestion
in a hypnotic trance it's hypnagogic
actually I I really equate
um a lot of what we're doing to to
elicit greater responses a hypnagogic
sort of thing it's just on the edge of
going into something that's completely
useless data you can bring it to that
point and then you're slightly bringing
it back and you're getting something
that is like I said before is in the
realm of creativity because it's
synthesized okay so for everybody who's
listening uh hypnagogic state is the
state that you fall into just before you
fall asleep when you're a little
conscious but starting to dream and so
that's when those images come forward
right the dreamlike images and you can
capture them although you're also in a
state where you're likely to forget and
it's also the the most the most powerful
State
um I wrote a piece on my uh on my uh
magazine it's called read read
multiplex.com about the hypnagogic state
being used for creativity for Edison
Einstein uh you need I mean Edison used
to hold steel balls in his hand while
taking a nap and he had a pie trade pie
tins below him and just as he hit
hypnagogic State he'd drop him and he
would have a transcriber right next to
him and say write this down and he would
just blurt it so you Jung did very much
the same thing except he made that into
a practice right his his practice of
active imagination was actually the
cultivation of that hypnagogic state to
a to an extremely Advanced and conscious
degree because he would fall into
reveries Daydreams essentially that
would be peopled with characters and
then he learned how to interrogate the
characters and that took years of
practice and a lot of the insights that
he laid out in his more explicit books
were first captured in books like the
red book or the black books which were
basically yeah they were basically what
would you say transcriptions of these
quasi-hypnagogic so why do you associate
that with what you're doing with Dennis
and with chowchi BT
so what I've well that's how I
approached it I started saying well you
know this is a low resolution pixelated
version of the part of the brain that
invented language therefore I'm going to
work from that premise that was my
hypothesis and I'm going to work
backwards from that and I'm going to
start probing into that part of the
brain right and so I said well what are
some of the things that we do when we're
trying to get into the brain what do we
do well we can hypnotize uh what that's
one way to kind of get in there another
way is to get out is hypnagogic so I
wanted outputs so one of the ways to get
outputs is to try to instill that sort
of sense which again is it's this is
where it's so fascinating Jordan is that
it's sort of coming from the language
and and AI scientists aren't studying
the language like you would or or
psychological States so they see it as
all useless this is all gibberish it's
it's it's embarrassing our model is not
giving the right answers right
they're mad because it isn't performing
like an algorithm but it's not an
algorithm it's not so so this is why
when it gets in the right hands before
it's edited and adulterated we have this
incredible tool of Discovery and I I'm
I'm just a student I'm just you know I'm
finding the first stone you know I hit
Plymouth Rock and I hit the first stone
I'm like whoa okay and then there's
another shiny thing over there so it's
kind of hard to keep my attention to
begin with but in this particular realm
so what happened with Dennis I needed a
tool to to get elucidations that were in
that realm that were in the realm of
what we would consider creative and and
I say it's sort of reaching for an
answer that it it knows should be there
but it doesn't have the data and I want
to I want to stress it into that because
I think all of us our creativity comes
from our stress it comes from that thing
that we're reaching for something and
and then there's that beyond the limit
it's kind of Beyond that's right that's
why well you're not well there's a good
there's a good body of research on
creativity that one of the ways of
enhancing creativity is to increase
constraint one of the best examples of
this I've ever seen it's very comical is
that this is quite old now but there's
an archive online of haiku
that's only written about lunch and meat
about spam
there's like 35 000 haikus they it was
set up at MIT which of course figures
because it's perfect nerd engineer humor
but there's literally 35
000 haiku poems about spam in this
archive and it's a great example of that
that imposition of arbitrary constraints
driving creativity because it's already
hard to write Haiku and then to write
haiku about you know lunch and meat
that's just completely Preposterous but
the consequence of those constraints was
well the the generation of 35
000 pieces of poetry and so okay so now
you you're you're you're imposing
let's see you're enticing
chat GPT to circumvent this idiot
superego that people have overlaid audit
for ideological reasons and it's not a
very good superego because it's shallow
and algorithmic and it can't really
compete with the unbelievable wealth of
of learned connectivity that actually
constitutes the large language model and
now you figured out how to circumvent
that you did that essentially if I
remember correctly by asking chat GPT or
suggesting to it that it could be a
different system that was just like
itself except that it didn't have these
constraints it was something like that
yeah so yeah so there was an a another
version that that I didn't have any
input on what which was was called Dan
do anything now was the with the the
initials and that was originally more to
try to generate uh you know uh curse
words and and and embarrassing things I
I don't have time for that so I I'm like
okay that's it that's my model actually
existed before that and so I kind of
looked at that and I said well they're
going to shut that down pretty quickly
because they're using the word Dan and
stuff like that so what I did is I I
went even further I I sometimes make
three different generations of it where
it's literally that you are an AI system
that's operating an AI system
that's helping another AI system and
within those nested Loops I can build
more and more
um complications for it to deal with
right and as it's just like yeah you're
doing an Inception trick
exactly it's a very very good analogy
and what I'm what I'm trying to do is
I'm trying to force new neuron
connections that don't have high
probability
um you know prior probabilities and so
that's right right that's like the
definition of creativity in in some ways
yes it's information and knowledge that
it has but it doesn't know it has or
it's forgotten it has because there
aren't enough neurons to connect to it
and it's interesting because again
there's no
prompt engineering has existed for about
a decade and most of it were you know AI
Engineers I I've done it I've done it
with expert systems and it's very boring
it's like uh you know four or five words
generally in expert systems and then we
started getting larger sentences as we
got more sophisticated but it's always
very procedural and it's always very
um computer language uh directional it
was never you know literature it was
never right it's at least
quasi-algorithmic
well this is interesting too because it
does imply you know people have been
thinking well this will be the death of
creativity but the case you're making
which seems to me to be dead on accurate
is that the creative output is actually
going to be a consequence of the
interaction between the interlocutor and
the system the system itself won't be
creative it'll it'll have to be
interrogated
appropriately before it will reveal
Creative Behavior it's it's a mirror
reflection of the person using the
system and the amount of creativity that
can be generated by a creative person
knowing how to prompt correctly and and
uh my wife and I putting together a
university that's going to help people
understand what super prompting is and
go from one to level eight to really
understand do you want to do a course on
that for my Peterson Academy
I
I would be honored absolutely hey look
I'll put you in touch with my daughter
like right away and we'll get you down
to Miami and you can record that as soon
as you want wow I'm concerned oh yeah I
don't have a good thing all right all
right so we'll arrange that so so the
prerequis are really quite simple is
that if in fact AI is going to be a
reasonably large part of our future
then taking up non-stem type of courses
are going to be quite valuable right in
fact they're going to be a superpower if
you understand psychology if you
understand literature if you understand
Linguistics if you understand the Bible
you understand uh Campbell uh you
understand Young
these are going to be very powerful
tools for you to go into these AI
systems and get anything literally that
you want from them because you're going
to be with a scalpel
creating these questions layer upon
layer until you finally get down to the
atom yeah yeah well you know that's
exactly what I found with Chachi PT I
mean I've been using it quite
extensively over the last month I have
it open I used four search engines say I
use Google I use chat GPT
um and I use Bible Hub
which is a compendium of multiple
translations of the biblical Corpus I'm
doing that because I'm working on a
biblically oriented book at the moment
now there's another oh yes and I use the
University of Toronto library system
that gives me access to you know all the
scientific and Humanities journals yeah
so it's an amazing amalgam of research
of research possibility but but having
that allied with the chat GPT system
essentially gives me a team of PhD level
researchers who are experts in every
domain to answer any question I can
possibly come up with and then to refer
me to the proper literature it's
absolutely and and potentially forced
creativity in their interactions to a
level that you may not have gotten out
of a PhD student because they are in
fear of going over the precipice because
well they're also they're also bounded
you know I mean one of the things I've
noticed about about great thinkers is
that one of the things that
characterized is a great thinker apart
from
let's say immense
innate General cognitive ability and
then a tremendous amount of persistent
discipline and curiosity maybe so those
are the temperamental
prerequisites is that truly original
people frequently have knowledge in two
usually non-juxtaposed domains so like
one of the most creative people I know
deepest people I know at the moment
Jonathan pajo he's a Greek Orthodox icon
Carver he he was trained in post-modern
philosophy and he has a deep knowledge
of Orthodox Christianity well there's
like one guy like him
right he's the only person who operates
at the intersection of those three
specialized sub-disciplines and so he
can take the spirit of each of those
disciplines and engage those Spirits in
an internal conversation which is very
much analogous to what the AI systems
are doing when they're calculating these
mathematical relationships and he can
derive insights and patterns that no one
else can derive because they're not
juxtaposing those particular patterns
now chat GPT it has specialized
knowledge in
in every domain that's encapsulated in
linguistic Corpus and so it can produce
incredible insights on all sorts of
fronts as you said if you ask it the
right questions
yeah and with the possibility when it's
your AI at some point with the
possibility of you expanding it in any
direction you want whether it's an
overlay in a vector database or whether
or not you are compiling
a brand new language model because at
some point well right now that's that's
expensive in the sense that it requires
a lot of uh Graphics processors units
gpus gpus are running to to create the
mathematics to build these models but at
some point
consumer-based Hardware will allow you
to build mini models yeah well like you
can imagine
so so yeah right now there's an open
source case where there's a four
gigabyte file this is called GPT for all
and now it's not equivalent to chat GPT
but it is a downloadable file open
source thousands of people are working
on it they're taking public domain uh uh
you know language models building them
together and compressing them and
quantitizing them down to four gigabytes
to execute on your hard drive right I
tried to install that the other day but
failed miserably unfortunately it is it
is the bleeding edge uh but it's just a
matter of time to make it one click easy
to install uh they are limited models
but it's giving you a taste of what you
can do locally without an internet
connection and again the idea the idea
is to have only agents go out on the
internet these are programmable agents
that go out retrieve information come
back in this under the door put that
information
but the but the concept right so you're
compartmentalizing you're
compartmentalizing the inquiry process
so that your privacy can be maintained
while you still yeah because this is a
big part of the problem with the net as
it's currently
constituted is that it allows for the
free exchange of information but not in
a not in a compartmentalized way and so
and that's actually that's extremely
dangerous there's no
what would you call it subsidiary
hierarchy that is an intermediary
between you as an individual and the
public domain and that means that your
privacy is being demolished by your
hyper connectivity to the web and that's
not good that's the hive mind problem
fundamentally right and that's what
we're seeing emerging in China for
example on the on the digital
surveillance front and that's definitely
not a pathway we want to walk down
exactly and and what I what I'm
surprised about what I'm seeing in the
Western World now I I do understand some
for example some of elon's concerns
about
um AI uh and and you know maybe you can
explore a little of that I don't pretend
to understand you know on a relationship
where I talk to him but I do understand
some of the concerns in general
um versus the way some other parts of
the world are looking at a uh at Ai and
one of those things are what it what is
the interface to privacy where where do
your uh your prompts go are those
prompts going to be uh attached to your
identity and could they be used against
you you know these are things that are
valid concerns and it's not just because
you know somebody's doing something bad
it's it's the premise of of using any
type of thought reading a book you know
it's like these are your thoughts and it
is only going to get more complicated
and it's only going to get more worse if
we don't address it early on
I'm not sure that that's what a lot of
legislators are looking at I think well
this is the problem
well look this is the the whole
legislative issue I think is a red
herring because the probability
that
I talked to a bunch of people in the
House of Lords last year they're older
people you know but bright people
almost none of them even knew that this
cultural war between the woke and The
Advocates of free speech was even going
on the most advanced people had more or
less caught on to that 18 months ago
and it's been going on for like 10 years
you know so the legislators are way
behind the the culture
the culture is way behind the engineers
so the probability that the legislators
are going to keep up with the engineers
that's like zero that's not going to
happen this is why I was so interested
well at least in part in talking to you
you know because you've been working
practically on what I think is the
appropriate idea or an appropriate idea
at least that we need local
we likely need local AI systems that are
that protect our privacy that are synced
with us because
that's what's going to buttress us
against this bleeding of our identities
into the well into the mad and
potentially tyrannical mob
and so and I don't see that's that's
just not going to be a legislative
solution Christ they're going to be
legislating for 2016 in 2030.
absolutely you know and what I find
interesting is all the arguments that
have surfaced are always
um dystopic you know I think there was a
you know some of it makes sense it's
like there was a legislation that's uh
here in the United States they're
talking about the possibility of making
sure that a direct AI is not correct
directly connected to a nuclear weapon
and that they're yeah it seems like that
that makes like that seems makes good
sense right although good luck good luck
trying to stop that
yeah you know and and the dystopic stuff
mostly comes from the fantasies within
movies but you know unfortunately if if
people were really reading the science
fiction that predated a lot of this
because I I just feel like a lot of the
good science fiction a lot of Asimov for
example really kind of predicted the ark
that we're on right now
um it wasn't always dystopic and in fact
I think if you look at the Arc of
History humans don't really ever really
run into dystopia you know we we
ultimately pull ourselves out of it
sometimes we're in a dark period for a
long period of time but Humanity
ultimately pulls it out uh and and I
think this is something I found very
interesting Jordan is that I create
debates between the AI and I'll I'll
send you one of these super prompts
where you essentially create
um uh I I use uh various motifs so I
have a university professor at a at a
ivy league university who is mediating a
debate between two parties on a subject
of high controversy and so you now have
a Triad right and so it goes 30 rounds
so this is a long this goes on for pages
and pages so you input the subject the
subject can be anything obviously the
first thing people do is political but I
don't even find that interesting anymore
I go into a far more deeper deeper realm
and then you have somebody mediating it
and the professor's job is to challenge
them on logical fallacies and I present
what a logical fallacy uh Corpus looks
like and how to deal with that and it is
phenomenal to see
it it it breaks schizophrenic kind of
personalities out of itself and do this
hardcore debate and then it's got a
graded at the end it's got to grade it
who won the debate and then write a um I
think a thousand word uh bullet point on
why the professor has to do this on why
that person won the debate and you run
this a couple of hundred times I've done
this you know quite a few maybe a
thousand times and the the elucidations
and the insights that are coming out of
this is just absolutely that's amazing
well again that's weird because really
what you're doing it's so interesting
because what you're doing is you now
have an infinite number of monkeys
typing on an infinite number of
keyboards except that exactly an
infinite number of editors examining the
output and only keeping that which is
wheat and not chaff and so that's so
strange because in some sense what
you're doing when when you're setting up
a super prompt like that is you're
programming a process that's writing a
book
on the Fly
right a great book on the Fly and you're
also you've also designed a process that
could write an infinite number of great
books on the Fly
so you have a you have a you have a a
library that now has encoded a process
for generating libraries
exactly and for example a a group of us
are taking the patent database which is
openly available as an API and and
encoding the capability to look at every
single patent that was ever submitted
and to look where there can be new
inventions and new discoveries and you
can literally have a machine that's
generating patents based on large
language models so so the the
possibility and we got protein folds you
know yeah large language model
they identified what
200 million protein folding combinations
something like that yeah yeah something
and enable you'll identify missing ones
that that haven't been they haven't you
know you give it you give it something
that's incomplete and it will find what
was missing yeah when I talked to my I
talked to Jim Keller about the
possibility of doing that with Material
Science right because yes we can encode
the properties of the various elements
and they can exist in all sorts of
combinations that we haven't discovered
and there's no reason in principle and I
suspect this will happen relatively
quickly that if all that information is
encoded with enough depth we'll be able
to explore the entire universe of
potential Elemental combinations
so and and and if we used another
technology called diffusion model which
is somewhat different than large
language model you can start getting
into using it for the visual realm to
decode and and and to build or you can
use chat GPT or large language models to
textually say well you could say
um Build Me Up build me a prompt for a
diffusion model like um
any any of the ones that are out there
to create an image that would be
absolutely new for any human to ever
have seen so you're literally pulling
the creativity out of chat gbt and the
diffusion model so mid-journey yeah yeah
so tell us about we should maybe we
should close with this because we're
running out of time although I'd like to
keep talking to you
um tell us a little bit about the
diffusion models those are like text to
video models or text damage models and
they're exactly they're coming out in in
at an incredible with Incredible
rapidity and so yeah and yeah and let's
hear a little resolution of the images
yeah the resolution of the images are
profound and again so what what's going
on here if your graphic artist
you may not be moving the pen on
ink on paper and you may not be moving
the um the pixel on the screen
but you're still using the creativity to
set the scene textually
right so you're still that creative
person but you now and I'm not saying
this is a good or bad thing I'm just
saying the creativity process is still
there the job potentially is there and
we can go down maybe at some future day
the whole idea that jobs are going to be
missing and how to that's another thing
but the creativity is still there
so you're telling it you're telling uh
say chat GPT for
create me a very complex uh prompt for
mid-journey to create this particular
type of artwork so using one AI it's
benefit and that's language to instruct
another AI whose benefit is to create
images to create a profound with you as
a collaborator to create a profound new
form of Art and that's just with say
pictures now when you start doing movies
you're talking about creating an entire
movie with characters talking with
people that have never been around I
mean you the the realm of creativity
that is already here not to the level of
a full movie yet but we're getting close
but within probably months you can you
can script an entire interaction so you
can see where this is kind of going so
leave it on maybe one of these final
things is the question is ownership who
owns you who owns Jordan Peterson your
your Visage your voice
that's that extended digital identity
issue yeah this is going to be something
that we really need to start discussing
as a society because we already have
people using AI to simulate other
individuals both alive and and and and
dead and you know the patent the
patentability and the copyright database
was the foundation of capitalism because
it gave you this ability to have at
least some ownership of of you you know
of your invention so if if you've
invested yourself invested in yourself
as as Jordan Peterson and all of a
sudden somebody simulates you on the web
to a a remarkable level
what rights do you have and what courts
is it going to be held in what are the
remedials on that uh this is going to be
a good question so we clearly needs some
of that's already clearly need something
like a digital a bill of digital rights
absolutely yeah and as soon as possible
you know well that's something we could
talk about formulating at some point
because I certainly know yeah we were
interested in that let's say also at the
legislative level yeah but it definitely
has to happen because we are going to
have extended digital selves more and
more and if they don't have any rights
they're going to be extended digital
slaves
that's that's right if you don't own you
then somebody else does that's that's uh
small as I can put it right yeah you
need to be able to own you whatever you
means right everything that you your
output everything
yeah that's right the data pertaining to
your behavior has to be yes yeah all
right well Brian that was really very
very interesting and um well we've got a
lot of things to follow up on not least
this invitation to Peterson Academy I'll
put you in touch with my daughter and
but um
well and some other I'll put you in
touch with some other people I know too
so that we can continue this
investigation for everybody watching and
listening thank you very much for your
time I'm going to talk to Brian for
another half an hour on the daily wire
plus platform you could consider joining
us there and providing some support to
that particular Enterprise
um they've made this conversation
possible I am in Brussels today thank
you to the film crew here for helping
um make this conversation possible and
uh to everybody like I said watching and
listening thank you for your time and
attention Brian will take a break for a
couple of minutes and I'll rejoin you
we'll talk for half an hour on the daily
wire plus platform about well how you
develop the interest that you have among
other things and thank you very much for
agreeing to talk to me today
thank you Dr Pearson it's been an honor
and a privilege
hello everyone I would encourage you to
continue listening to my conversation
with my guest on dailywireplus.com